    <h2>
      Footnotes:
    </h2>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-1" id="linknote-1">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      1 (<a href="#linknoteref-1">return</a>)<br /> [ Heywood dedicates the First
      Part of THE IRON AGE (printed 1632) "To my Worthy and much Respected
      Friend, Mr. Thomas Hammon, of Grayes Inne, Esquire."]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-2" id="linknote-2">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      2 (<a href="#linknoteref-2">return</a>)<br /> [ Tho. Heywood: The
      well-known dramatist.]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-3" id="linknote-3">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      3 (<a href="#linknoteref-3">return</a>)<br /> [ censures: i.e. judgments.]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-4" id="linknote-4">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      4 (<a href="#linknoteref-4">return</a>)<br /> [ bin: i.e. been.]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-5" id="linknote-5">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      5 (<a href="#linknoteref-5">return</a>)<br /> [ best of poets: "Marlo."
      Marg. note in old ed.]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-6" id="linknote-6">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      6 (<a href="#linknoteref-6">return</a>)<br /> [ best of actors: "Allin."
      Marg. note in old. ed.—Any account of the celebrated actor, Edward
      Alleyn, the founder of Dulwich College, would be superfluous here.]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-7" id="linknote-7">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      7 (<a href="#linknoteref-7">return</a>)<br /> [ In HERO AND LEANDER, &amp;c.:
      The meaning is—The one (Marlowe) gained a lasting memory by being
      the author of HERO AND LEANDER; while the other (Alleyn) wan the attribute
      of peerless by playing the parts of Tamburlaine, the Jew of Malta, &amp;c.—The
      passage happens to be mispointed in the old ed. thus,
    </p>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
    "In Hero and Leander, one did gaine
     A lasting memorie:  in Tamberlaine,
     This Jew, with others many:  th' other wan," &amp;c.
</pre>
    <p>
      and hence Mr. Collier, in his HIST. OF ENG. DRAM. POET. iii. 114,
      understood the words,
    </p>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
    "in Tamburlaine,
     This Jew, with others many,"
</pre>
    <p>
      as applying to Marlowe: he afterwards, however, in his MEMOIRS OF ALLEYN,
      p. 9, suspected that the punctuation of the old ed. might be wrong,—which
      it doubtless is.]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-8" id="linknote-8">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      8 (<a href="#linknoteref-8">return</a>)<br /> [ him: "Perkins." Marg. note
      in old ed.—"This was Richard Perkins, one of the performers
      belonging to the Cock-pit theatre in Drury-Lane. His name is printed among
      those who acted in HANNIBAL AND SCIPIO by Nabbes, THE WEDDING by Shirley,
      and THE FAIR MAID OF THE WEST by Heywood. After the play-houses were shut
      up on account of the confusion arising from the civil wars, Perkins and
      Sumner, who belonged to the same house, lived together at Clerkenwell,
      where they died and were buried. They both died some years before the
      Restoration. See THE DIALOGUE ON PLAYS AND PLAYERS [Dodsley's OLD PLAYS,
      1. clii., last ed.]." REED (apud Dodsley's O. P.). Perkins acted a
      prominent part in Webster's WHITE DEVIL, when it was first brought on the
      stage, —perhaps Brachiano (for Burbadge, who was celebrated in
      Brachiano, does not appear to have played it originally): in a notice to
      the reader at the end of that tragedy Webster says; "In particular I must
      remember the well-approved industry of my friend Master Perkins, and
      confess the worth of his action did crown both the beginning and end."
      About 1622-3 Perkins belonged to the Red Bull theatre: about 1637 he
      joined the company at Salisbury Court: see Webster's WORKS, note, p. 51,
      ed. Dyce, 1857.]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-9" id="linknote-9">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      9 (<a href="#linknoteref-9">return</a>)<br /> [ prize was play'd: This
      expression (so frequent in our early writers) is properly applied to
      fencing: see Steevens's note on Shakespeare's MERRY WIVES OF WINDSOR, act.
      i. sc. 1.]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-10" id="linknote-10">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      10 (<a href="#linknoteref-10">return</a>)<br /> [ no wagers laid: "Wagers
      as to the comparative merits of rival actors in particular parts were not
      unfrequent of old," &amp;c. Collier (apud Dodsley's O. P.). See my ed. of
      Peele's WORKS, i. x. ed. 1829; and Collier's MEMOIRS OF ALLEYN, p. 11.]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-11" id="linknote-11">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      11 (<a href="#linknoteref-11">return</a>)<br /> [ the Guise: "i.e. the Duke
      of Guise, who had been the principal contriver and actor in the horrid
      massacre of St. Bartholomew's day, 1572. He met with his deserved fate,
      being assassinated, by order of the French king, in 1588." REED (apud
      Dodsley's O. P.). And see our author's MASSACRE AT PARIS.]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-12" id="linknote-12">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      12 (<a href="#linknoteref-12">return</a>)<br /> [ empery: Old ed.
      "Empire."]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-13" id="linknote-13">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      13 (<a href="#linknoteref-13">return</a>)<br /> [ the Draco's: "i.e. the
      severe lawgiver of Athens; 'whose statutes,' said Demades, 'were not
      written with ink, but blood.'" STEEVENS (apud Dodsley's O. P.).—Old
      ed. "the Drancus."]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-14" id="linknote-14">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      14 (<a href="#linknoteref-14">return</a>)<br /> [ had: Qy. "had BUT"?]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-15" id="linknote-15">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      15 (<a href="#linknoteref-15">return</a>)<br /> [ a lecture here: Qy. "a
      lecture TO YOU here"?]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-16" id="linknote-16">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      16 (<a href="#linknoteref-16">return</a>)<br /> [ Act I.: The Scenes of
      this play are not marked in the old ed.; nor in the present edition,—because
      occasionally (where the audience were to SUPPOSE a change of place, it was
      impossible to mark them.]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-17" id="linknote-17">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      17 (<a href="#linknoteref-17">return</a>)<br /> [ Samnites: Old ed.
      "Samintes."]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-18" id="linknote-18">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      18 (<a href="#linknoteref-18">return</a>)<br /> [ silverlings: When
      Steevens (apud Dodsley's O. P.) called this "a diminutive, to express the
      Jew's contempt of a metal inferior in value to gold," he did not know that
      the word occurs in Scripture: "a thousand vines at a thousand
      SILVERLINGS." ISAIAH, vii. 23.—Old ed. "siluerbings."]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-19" id="linknote-19">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      19 (<a href="#linknoteref-19">return</a>)<br /> [ Tell: i.e. count.]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-20" id="linknote-20">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      20 (<a href="#linknoteref-20">return</a>)<br /> [ seld-seen: i.e.
      seldom-seen.]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-21" id="linknote-21">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      21 (<a href="#linknoteref-21">return</a>)<br /> [ Into what corner peers my
      halcyon's bill?: "It was anciently believed that this bird (the
      king-fisher), if hung up, would vary with the wind, and by that means shew
      from what quarter it blew." STEEVENS (apud Dodsley's O. P.),—who
      refers to the note on the following passage of Shakespeare's KING LEAR,
      act ii. sc. 2;
    </p>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
    "Renege, affirm, and turn their HALCYON BEAKS
     With every gale and vary of their masters," &amp;c.]
</pre>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-22" id="linknote-22">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      22 (<a href="#linknoteref-22">return</a>)<br /> [ custom them: "i.e. enter
      the goods they contain at the Custom-house." STEEVENS (apud Dodsley's O.
      P.).]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-23" id="linknote-23">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      23 (<a href="#linknoteref-23">return</a>)<br /> [ But: Old ed. "By."]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-24" id="linknote-24">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      24 (<a href="#linknoteref-24">return</a>)<br /> [ fraught: i.e. freight.]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-25" id="linknote-25">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      25 (<a href="#linknoteref-25">return</a>)<br /> [ scambled: i.e. scrambled.
      (Coles gives in his DICT. "To SCAMBLE, certatim arripere"; and afterwards
      renders "To scramble" by the very same Latin words.)]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-26" id="linknote-26">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      26 (<a href="#linknoteref-26">return</a>)<br /> [ Enter three JEWS: A
      change of scene is supposed here, —to a street or to the Exchange.]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-27" id="linknote-27">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      27 (<a href="#linknoteref-27">return</a>)<br /> [ Fond: i.e. Foolish.]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-28" id="linknote-28">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      28 (<a href="#linknoteref-28">return</a>)<br /> [ Aside: Mr. Collier (apud
      Dodsley's O. P.), mistaking the purport of this stage-direction (which, of
      course, applies only to the words "UNTO MYSELF"), proposed an alteration
      of the text.]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-29" id="linknote-29">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      29 (<a href="#linknoteref-29">return</a>)<br /> [ BARABAS. Farewell,
      Zaareth, &amp;c.: Old ed. "Iew. DOE SO; Farewell Zaareth," &amp;c. But
      "Doe so" is evidently a stage- direction which has crept into the text,
      and which was intended to signify that the Jews DO "take their leaves" of
      Barabas: —here the old ed. has no "EXEUNT."]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-30" id="linknote-30">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      30 (<a href="#linknoteref-30">return</a>)<br /> [ Turk has: So the Editor
      of 1826.—Old ed. "Turkes haue": but see what follows.]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-31" id="linknote-31">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      31 (<a href="#linknoteref-31">return</a>)<br /> [ Ego mihimet sum semper
      proximus: The words of Terence are "Proximus sum egomet mihi." ANDRIA, iv.
      1. 12.]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-32" id="linknote-32">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      32 (<a href="#linknoteref-32">return</a>)<br /> [ Exit: The scene is now
      supposed to be changed to the interior of the Council-house.]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-33" id="linknote-33">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      33 (<a href="#linknoteref-33">return</a>)<br /> [ bassoes: i.e. bashaws.]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-34" id="linknote-34">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      34 (<a href="#linknoteref-34">return</a>)<br /> [ governor: Old ed.
      "Gouernours" here, and several times after in this scene.]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-35" id="linknote-35">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      35 (<a href="#linknoteref-35">return</a>)<br /> [ CALYMATH. Stand all
      aside, &amp;c.: "The Governor and the Maltese knights here consult apart,
      while Calymath gives these directions." COLLIER (apud Dodsley's O. P.).]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-36" id="linknote-36">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      36 (<a href="#linknoteref-36">return</a>)<br /> [ happily: i.e. haply.]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-37" id="linknote-37">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      37 (<a href="#linknoteref-37">return</a>)<br /> [ Officer: Old ed.
      "Reader."]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-38" id="linknote-38">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      38 (<a href="#linknoteref-38">return</a>)<br /> [ denies: i.e. refuses.]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-39" id="linknote-39">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      39 (<a href="#linknoteref-39">return</a>)<br /> [ convertite: "i.e.
      convert, as in Shakespeare's KING JOHN, act v. sc. 1." STEEVENS (apud
      Dodsley's O. P.).]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-40" id="linknote-40">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      40 (<a href="#linknoteref-40">return</a>)<br /> [ Then we'll take, &amp;c.:
      In the old ed. this line forms a portion of the preceding speech.]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-41" id="linknote-41">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      41 (<a href="#linknoteref-41">return</a>)<br /> [ ecstasy: Equivalent here
      to—violent emotion. "The word was anciently used to signify some
      degree of alienation of mind." COLLIER (apud Dodsley's O. P.).]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-42" id="linknote-42">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      42 (<a href="#linknoteref-42">return</a>)<br /> [ Exeunt three Jews: On
      their departure, the scene is supposed to be changed to a street near the
      house of Barabas.]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-43" id="linknote-43">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      43 (<a href="#linknoteref-43">return</a>)<br /> [ reduce: If the right
      reading, is equivalent to—repair. But qy. "redress"?]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-44" id="linknote-44">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      44 (<a href="#linknoteref-44">return</a>)<br /> [ fond: "i.e. foolish."
      REED (apud Dodsley's O. P.).]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-45" id="linknote-45">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      45 (<a href="#linknoteref-45">return</a>)<br /> [ portagues: Portuguese
      gold coins, so called.]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-46" id="linknote-46">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      46 (<a href="#linknoteref-46">return</a>)<br /> [ sect: "i.e. sex. SECT and
      SEX were, in our ancient dramatic writers, used synonymously." REED (apud
      Dodsley's O. P.).]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-47" id="linknote-47">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      47 (<a href="#linknoteref-47">return</a>)<br /> [ Enter FRIAR JACOMO, &amp;c.:
      Old ed. "Enter three Fryars and two Nuns:" but assuredly only TWO Friars
      figure in this play.]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-48" id="linknote-48">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      48 (<a href="#linknoteref-48">return</a>)<br /> [ Abb.: In the old ed. the
      prefix to this speech is "1 Nun," and to the next speech but one "Nun."
      That both speeches belong to the Abbess is quite evident.]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-49" id="linknote-49">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      49 (<a href="#linknoteref-49">return</a>)<br /> [ Sometimes: Equivalent
      here (as frequently in our early writers) to—Sometime.]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-50" id="linknote-50">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      50 (<a href="#linknoteref-50">return</a>)<br /> [ forgive me—: Old
      ed. "GIUE me—"]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-51" id="linknote-51">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      51 (<a href="#linknoteref-51">return</a>)<br /> [ thus: After this word the
      old ed. has "|",—to signify, perhaps, the motion which Barabas was
      to make here with his hand.]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-52" id="linknote-52">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      52 (<a href="#linknoteref-52">return</a>)<br /> [ forget not: Qy. "forget
      IT not"]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-53" id="linknote-53">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      53 (<a href="#linknoteref-53">return</a>)<br /> [ Enter BARABAS, with a
      light: The scene is now before the house of Barabas, which has been turned
      into a nunnery.]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-54" id="linknote-54">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      54 (<a href="#linknoteref-54">return</a>)<br /> [ Thus, like the
      sad-presaging raven, that tolls The sick man's passport in her hollow beak
      Mr. Collier (HIST. OF ENG. DRAM. POET. iii. 136) remarks that these lines
      are cited (with some variation, and from memory, as the present play was
      not printed till 1633) in an epigram on T. Deloney, in Guilpin's
      SKIALETHEIA OR THE SHADOWE OF TRUTH, 1598,—
    </p>
<pre xml:space="preserve">

    "LIKE TO THE FATALL OMINOUS RAVEN, WHICH TOLLS
     THE SICK MAN'S DIRGE WITHIN HIS HOLLOW BEAKE,
     So every paper-clothed post in Poules
     To thee, Deloney, mourningly doth speake," &amp;c.]
</pre>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-55" id="linknote-55">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      55 (<a href="#linknoteref-55">return</a>)<br /> [ of: i.e. on.]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-56" id="linknote-56">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      56 (<a href="#linknoteref-56">return</a>)<br /> [ wake: Old ed. "walke."]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-57" id="linknote-57">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      57 (<a href="#linknoteref-57">return</a>)<br /> [ Bueno para todos mi
      ganado no era: Old ed. "Birn para todos, my ganada no er."]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-58" id="linknote-58">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      58 (<a href="#linknoteref-58">return</a>)<br /> [ But stay: what star
      shines yonder in the east, &amp;c. Shakespeare, it would seem, recollected
      this passage, when he wrote,—
    </p>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
    "But, soft! what light through yonder window breaks?
     It is the east, and Juliet is the sun!"
          ROMEO AND JULIET, act ii. sc. 2.]
</pre>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-59" id="linknote-59">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      59 (<a href="#linknoteref-59">return</a>)<br /> [ Hermoso placer de los
      dineros: Old ed. "Hormoso Piarer, de les Denirch."]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-60" id="linknote-60">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      60 (<a href="#linknoteref-60">return</a>)<br /> [ Enter Ferneze, &amp;c.:
      The scene is the interior of the Council-house.]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-61" id="linknote-61">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      61 (<a href="#linknoteref-61">return</a>)<br /> [ entreat: i.e. treat.]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-62" id="linknote-62">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      62 (<a href="#linknoteref-62">return</a>)<br /> [ vail'd not: "i.e. did not
      strike or lower our flags." STEEVENS (apud Dodsley's O. P.).]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-63" id="linknote-63">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      63 (<a href="#linknoteref-63">return</a>)<br /> [ Turkish: Old ed.
      "Spanish."]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-64" id="linknote-64">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      64 (<a href="#linknoteref-64">return</a>)<br /> [ luff'd and tack'd: Old
      ed. "LEFT, and TOOKE."]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-65" id="linknote-65">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      65 (<a href="#linknoteref-65">return</a>)<br /> [ stated: i.e. estated,
      established, stationed.]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-66" id="linknote-66">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      66 (<a href="#linknoteref-66">return</a>)<br /> [ Enter OFFICERS, &amp;c.:
      The scene being the market-place.]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-67" id="linknote-67">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      67 (<a href="#linknoteref-67">return</a>)<br /> [ Poor villains, such as
      were: Old ed. "SUCH AS poore villaines were", &amp;c.]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-68" id="linknote-68">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      68 (<a href="#linknoteref-68">return</a>)<br /> [ into: i.e. unto: see note
      |, p. 15.
    </p>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
     [note |, p. 15, The First Part of Tamburlaine the Great:
    "| into: Used here (as the word was formerly often used)
     for UNTO."]
</pre>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-69" id="linknote-69">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      69 (<a href="#linknoteref-69">return</a>)<br /> [ city: The preceding
      editors have not questioned this word, which I believe to be a misprint.]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-70" id="linknote-70">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      70 (<a href="#linknoteref-70">return</a>)<br /> [ foil'd]=filed, i.e.
      defiled.]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-71" id="linknote-71">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      71 (<a href="#linknoteref-71">return</a>)<br /> [ I'll have a saying to
      that nunnery: Compare Barnaby Barnes's DIVILS CHARTER, 1607;
    </p>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
    "Before I do this seruice, lie there, peece;
     For I must HAUE A SAYING to those bottels.  HE DRINKETH.
     True stingo; stingo, by mine honour.*   *   *
     *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *
     I must HAUE A SAYING to you, sir, I must, though you be
     prouided for his Holines owne mouth; I will be bould to be
     the Popes taster by his leaue." Sig. K 3.]
</pre>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-72" id="linknote-72">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      72 (<a href="#linknoteref-72">return</a>)<br /> [ plates: "i.e. pieces of
      silver money." STEEVENS (apud Dodsley's O. P.).—Old ed. "plats."]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-73" id="linknote-73">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      73 (<a href="#linknoteref-73">return</a>)<br /> [ Slave: To the speeches of
      this Slave the old ed. prefixes "Itha." and "Ith.", confounding him with
      Ithamore.]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-74" id="linknote-74">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      74 (<a href="#linknoteref-74">return</a>)<br /> [ Lady Vanity: So Jonson in
      his FOX, act ii. sc. 3.,
    </p>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
    "Get you a cittern, LADY VANITY,
     And be a dealer with the virtuous man," &amp;c.;
</pre>
    <p>
      and in his DEVIL IS AN ASS, act i. sc. 1.,—
    </p>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
    "SATAN. What Vice?
     PUG. Why, any:  Fraud,
     Or Covetousness, or LADY VANITY,
     Or old Iniquity."]
</pre>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-75" id="linknote-75">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      75 (<a href="#linknoteref-75">return</a>)<br /> [ Katharine: Old ed.
      "MATER."—The name of Mathias's mother was, as we afterwards learn,
      Katharine.]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-76" id="linknote-76">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      76 (<a href="#linknoteref-76">return</a>)<br /> [ stay: i.e. forbear, break
      off our conversation.]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-77" id="linknote-77">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      77 (<a href="#linknoteref-77">return</a>)<br /> [ was: Qy. "was BUT"?]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-78" id="linknote-78">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      78 (<a href="#linknoteref-78">return</a>)<br /> [ O, brave, master: The
      modern editors strike out the comma after "BRAVE", understanding that word
      as an epithet to "MASTER": but compare what Ithamore says to Barabas in
      act iv.: "That's BRAVE, MASTER," p. 165, first col.]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-79" id="linknote-79">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      79 (<a href="#linknoteref-79">return</a>)<br /> [ your nose: An allusion to
      the large artificial nose, with which Barabas was represented on the
      stage. See the passage cited from W. Rowley's SEARCH FOR MONEY, 1609, in
      the ACCOUNT OF MARLOWE AND HIS WRITINGS.]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-80" id="linknote-80">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      80 (<a href="#linknoteref-80">return</a>)<br /> [ Ure: i.e. use, practice.]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-81" id="linknote-81">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      81 (<a href="#linknoteref-81">return</a>)<br /> [ a-good: "i.e. in good
      earnest. Tout de bon." REED (apud Dodsley's O. P.).]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-82" id="linknote-82">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      82 (<a href="#linknoteref-82">return</a>)<br /> [ Enter LODOWICK: A change
      of scene supposed here,—to the outside of Barabas's house.]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-83" id="linknote-83">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      83 (<a href="#linknoteref-83">return</a>)<br /> [ vow love to him: Old ed.
      "vow TO LOUE him": but compare, in Barabas's next speech but one, "And she
      VOWS LOVE TO HIM," &amp;c.]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-84" id="linknote-84">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      84 (<a href="#linknoteref-84">return</a>)<br /> [ made sure: i.e.
      affianced.]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-85" id="linknote-85">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      85 (<a href="#linknoteref-85">return</a>)<br /> [ Ludovico: Old ed.
      "Lodowicke."—In act iii. we have,
    </p>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
    "I fear she knows—'tis so—of my device
     In Don Mathias' and LODOVICO'S deaths."  p. 162, sec. col.]
</pre>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-86" id="linknote-86">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      86 (<a href="#linknoteref-86">return</a>)<br /> [ happily: i.e. haply.]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-87" id="linknote-87">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      87 (<a href="#linknoteref-87">return</a>)<br /> [ unsoil'd: "Perhaps we
      ought to read 'unfoil'd', consistently with what Barabas said of her
      before under the figure of a jewel—
    </p>
<pre xml:space="preserve">

     'The diamond that I talk of NE'ER WAS FOIL'D'."
COLLIER (apud Dodsley's O. P.).  But see that passage, p. 155,
sec. col., and note ||. [i.e. note 70.]]
</pre>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-88" id="linknote-88">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      88 (<a href="#linknoteref-88">return</a>)<br /> [ cross: i.e. piece of
      money (many coins being marked with a cross on one side).]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-89" id="linknote-89">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      89 (<a href="#linknoteref-89">return</a>)<br /> [ thou: Old ed. "thee."]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-90" id="linknote-90">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      90 (<a href="#linknoteref-90">return</a>)<br /> [ resolv'd: "i.e.
      satisfied." GILCHRIST (apud Dodsley's O. P.).]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-91" id="linknote-91">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      91 (<a href="#linknoteref-91">return</a>)<br /> [ Enter BELLAMIRA: She
      appears, we may suppose, in a veranda or open portico of her house (that
      the scene is not the interior of the house, is proved by what follows).]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-92" id="linknote-92">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      92 (<a href="#linknoteref-92">return</a>)<br /> [ Enter MATHIAS. MATHIAS.
      This is the place, &amp;c.: The scene is some pert of the town, as Barabas
      appears "ABOVE,"—in the balcony of a house. (He stood, of course, on
      what was termed the upper-stage.)
    </p>
    <p>
      Old ed. thus;
    </p>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
    "Enter MATHIAS.
</pre>
    <p>
      Math. This is the place, now Abigail shall see Whether Mathias holds her
      deare or no.
    </p>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
     Enter Lodow. reading.
</pre>
    <p>
      Math. What, dares the villain write in such base terms?
    </p>
    <p>
      Lod. I did it, and reuenge it if thou dar'st."]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-93" id="linknote-93">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      93 (<a href="#linknoteref-93">return</a>)<br /> [ Lodovico: Old ed.
      "Lodowicke."—See note *, p. 158. (i.e. note 85.)]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-94" id="linknote-94">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      94 (<a href="#linknoteref-94">return</a>)<br /> [ tall: i.e. bold, brave.]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-95" id="linknote-95">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      95 (<a href="#linknoteref-95">return</a>)<br /> [ What sight is this!: i.e.
      What A sight is this! Our early writers often omit the article in such
      exclamations: compare Shakespeare's JULIUS CAESAR, act i. sc. 3, where
      Casca says,
    </p>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
    "Cassius, WHAT NIGHT IS THIS!"
</pre>
    <p>
      (after which words the modern editors improperly retain the
      interrogation-point of the first folio).]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-96" id="linknote-96">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      96 (<a href="#linknoteref-96">return</a>)<br /> [ Lodovico: Old ed.
      "Lodowicke."]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-97" id="linknote-97">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      97 (<a href="#linknoteref-97">return</a>)<br /> [ These arms of mine shall
      be thy sepulchre: So in Shakespeare's THIRD PART OF KING HENRY VI., act
      ii. sc. 5, the Father says to the dead Son whom he has killed in battle,
    </p>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
    "THESE ARMS OF MINE shall be thy winding-sheet;
     My heart, sweet boy, SHALL BE THY SEPULCHRE,"—
</pre>
    <p>
      lines, let me add, not to be found in THE TRUE TRAGEDIE OF RICHARD DUKE OF
      YORKE, on which Shakespeare formed that play.]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-98" id="linknote-98">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      98 (<a href="#linknoteref-98">return</a>)<br /> [ Katharine: Old ed.
      "Katherina."]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-99" id="linknote-99">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      99 (<a href="#linknoteref-99">return</a>)<br /> [ Enter ITHAMORE: The scene
      a room in the house of Barabas.]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-100" id="linknote-100">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      100 (<a href="#linknoteref-100">return</a>)<br /> [ held in hand: i.e. kept
      in expectation, having their hopes flattered.]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-101" id="linknote-101">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      101 (<a href="#linknoteref-101">return</a>)<br /> [ bottle-nosed: See note
      |, p. 157. [i.e. note 79.]]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-102" id="linknote-102">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      102 (<a href="#linknoteref-102">return</a>)<br /> [ Jaques: Old ed.
      "Iaynes."]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-103" id="linknote-103">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      103 (<a href="#linknoteref-103">return</a>)<br /> [ sire: Old ed. "sinne"
      (which, modernised to "sin", the editors retain, among many other equally
      obvious errors of the old copy).]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-104" id="linknote-104">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      104 (<a href="#linknoteref-104">return</a>)<br /> [ As: Old ed. "And."]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-105" id="linknote-105">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      105 (<a href="#linknoteref-105">return</a>)<br /> [ Enter BARABAS: The
      scene is still within the house of Barabas; but some time is supposed to
      have elapsed since the preceding conference between Abigail and Friar
      Jacomo.]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-106" id="linknote-106">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      106 (<a href="#linknoteref-106">return</a>)<br /> [ pretendeth: Equivalent
      to PORTENDETH; as in our author's FIRST BOOK OF LUCAN, "And which (ay me)
      ever PRETENDETH ill," &amp;c.]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-107" id="linknote-107">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      107 (<a href="#linknoteref-107">return</a>)<br /> [ self: Old ed. "life"
      (the compositor's eye having caught "life" in the preceding line).]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-108" id="linknote-108">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      108 (<a href="#linknoteref-108">return</a>)<br /> [ 'less: Old ed.
      "least."]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-109" id="linknote-109">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      109 (<a href="#linknoteref-109">return</a>)<br /> [ Well said: See note *,
      p. 69.]
    </p>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
     (note *, p. 69, The Second Part of Tamburlaine the Great:

    "* Well said: Equivalent to—Well done! as appears from
     innumerable passages of our early writers:  see, for
     instances, my ed. of Beaumont and Fletcher's WORKS, vol. i.
     328, vol. ii. 445, vol. viii. 254.")]
</pre>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-110" id="linknote-110">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      110 (<a href="#linknoteref-110">return</a>)<br /> [ the proverb says, &amp;c.:
      A proverb as old as Chaucer's time: see the SQUIERES TALE, v. 10916, ed.
      Tyrwhitt.]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-111" id="linknote-111">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      111 (<a href="#linknoteref-111">return</a>)<br /> [ batten: i.e. fatten.]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-112" id="linknote-112">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      112 (<a href="#linknoteref-112">return</a>)<br /> [ pot: Old ed. "plot."]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-113" id="linknote-113">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      113 (<a href="#linknoteref-113">return</a>)<br /> [ thou shalt have broth
      by the eye: "Perhaps he means—thou shalt SEE how the broth that is
      designed for thee is made, that no mischievous ingredients enter its
      composition. The passage is, however, obscure." STEEVENS (apud Dodsley's
      O. P.).—"BY THE EYE" seems to be equivalent to—in abundance.
      Compare THE CREED of Piers Ploughman:
    </p>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
    "Grey grete-heded quenes
     With gold BY THE EIGHEN."
</pre>
    <p>
      v. 167, ed. Wright (who has no note on the expression): and Beaumont and
      Fletcher's KNIGHT OF THE BURNING PESTLE, act ii. sc. 2; "here's money and
      gold BY TH' EYE, my boy." In Fletcher's BEGGARS' BUSH, act iii. sc. 1, we
      find, "Come, English beer, hostess, English beer BY THE BELLY!"]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-114" id="linknote-114">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      114 (<a href="#linknoteref-114">return</a>)<br /> [ In few: i.e. in a few
      words, in short.]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-115" id="linknote-115">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      115 (<a href="#linknoteref-115">return</a>)<br /> [ hebon: i.e. ebony,
      which was formerly supposed to be a deadly poison.]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-116" id="linknote-116">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      116 (<a href="#linknoteref-116">return</a>)<br /> [ Enter FERNEZE, &amp;c.:
      The scene is the interior of the Council-house.]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-117" id="linknote-117">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      117 (<a href="#linknoteref-117">return</a>)<br /> [ basso: Old ed.
      "Bashaws" (the printer having added an S by mistake), and in the preceding
      stage-direction, and in the fifth speech of this scene, "Bashaw": but in
      an earlier scene (see p. 148, first col.) we have "bassoes" (and see our
      author's TAMBURLAINE, PASSIM).
    </p>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
     (From p. 148, this play:

    "Enter FERNEZE governor of Malta, KNIGHTS, and OFFICERS;
     met by CALYMATH, and BASSOES of the TURK.")]
</pre>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-118" id="linknote-118">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      118 (<a href="#linknoteref-118">return</a>)<br /> [ the resistless banks:
      i.e. the banks not able to resist.]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-119" id="linknote-119">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      119 (<a href="#linknoteref-119">return</a>)<br /> [ basilisks: See note ||,
      p. 25.
    </p>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
     (note ||, p. 25, The First Part of Tamburlaine the Great:)

    "basilisks: Pieces of ordnance so called.  They were of
     immense size; see Douce's ILLUST. OF SHAKESPEARE, i. 425."]
</pre>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-120" id="linknote-120">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      120 (<a href="#linknoteref-120">return</a>)<br /> [ Enter FRIAR JACOMO,
      &amp;c.: Scene, the interior of the Nunnery.]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-121" id="linknote-121">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      121 (<a href="#linknoteref-121">return</a>)<br /> [ convers'd with me: She
      alludes to her conversation with Jacomo, p. 162, sec. col.
    </p>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
     (p. 162, second column, this play:

    "ABIGAIL. Welcome, grave friar.—Ithamore, be gone.

          Exit ITHAMORE.

     Know, holy sir, I am bold to solicit thee.
     FRIAR JACOMO. Wherein?")]
</pre>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-122" id="linknote-122">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      122 (<a href="#linknoteref-122">return</a>)<br /> [ envied: i.e. hated.]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-123" id="linknote-123">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      123 (<a href="#linknoteref-123">return</a>)<br /> [ practice: i.e. artful
      contrivance, stratagem.]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-124" id="linknote-124">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      124 (<a href="#linknoteref-124">return</a>)<br /> [ crucified a child: A
      crime with which the Jews were often charged. "Tovey, in his ANGLIA
      JUDAICA, has given the several instances which are upon record of these
      charges against the Jews; which he observes they were never accused of,
      but at such times as the king was manifestly in great want of money." REED
      (apud Dodsley's O. P.).]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-125" id="linknote-125">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      125 (<a href="#linknoteref-125">return</a>)<br /> [ Enter BARABAS, &amp;c.:
      Scene a street.]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-126" id="linknote-126">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      126 (<a href="#linknoteref-126">return</a>)<br /> [ to: Which the Editor of
      1826 deliberately altered to "like," means—compared to, in
      comparison of.]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-127" id="linknote-127">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      127 (<a href="#linknoteref-127">return</a>)<br /> [ Cazzo: Old ed. "catho."—See
      Florio's WORLDE OF WORDES (Ital. and Engl. Dict.) ed. 1598, in v.—"A
      petty oath, a cant exclamation, generally expressive, among the Italian
      populace, who have it constantly in their mouth, of defiance or contempt."
      Gifford's note on Jonson's WORKS, ii. 48.]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-128" id="linknote-128">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      128 (<a href="#linknoteref-128">return</a>)<br /> [ nose: See note |, p.
      157. [i.e. note 79.]]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-129" id="linknote-129">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      129 (<a href="#linknoteref-129">return</a>)<br /> [ inmate: Old ed.
      "inmates."]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-130" id="linknote-130">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      130 (<a href="#linknoteref-130">return</a>)<br /> [ the burden of my sins
      Lie heavy, &amp;c.: One of the modern editors altered "LIE" to "Lies": but
      examples of similar phraseology,—of a nominative singular followed
      by a plural verb when a plural genitive intervenes,—are common in
      our early writers; see notes on Beaumont and Fletcher's WORKS, vol. v. 7,
      94, vol. ix. 185, ed. Dyce.]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-131" id="linknote-131">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      131 (<a href="#linknoteref-131">return</a>)<br /> [ sollars: "i.e. lofts,
      garrets." STEEVENS (apud Dodsley's O. P.).]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-132" id="linknote-132">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      132 (<a href="#linknoteref-132">return</a>)<br /> [ untold: i.e. uncounted.—Old
      ed. "vnsold."]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-133" id="linknote-133">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      133 (<a href="#linknoteref-133">return</a>)<br /> [ BARABAS. This is mere
      frailty: brethren, be content.— Friar Barnardine, go you with
      Ithamore: You know my mind; let me alone with him.]
    </p>
    <p>
      FRIAR JACOMO. Why does he go to thy house? let him be gone
    </p>
    <p>
      Old ed. thus;
    </p>
    <p>
      "BAR. This is meere frailty, brethren, be content. Fryar Barnardine goe
      you with Ithimore. ITH. You know my mind, let me alone with him; Why does
      he goe to thy house, let him begone."]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-134" id="linknote-134">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      134 (<a href="#linknoteref-134">return</a>)<br /> [ the Turk: "Meaning
      Ithamore." COLLIER (apud Dodsley's O. P.). Compare the last line but one
      of Barabas's next speech.]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-135" id="linknote-135">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      135 (<a href="#linknoteref-135">return</a>)<br /> [ covent: i.e. convent.]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-136" id="linknote-136">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      136 (<a href="#linknoteref-136">return</a>)<br /> [ Therefore 'tis not
      requisite he should live: Lest the reader should suspect that the author
      wrote,
    </p>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
    "Therefore 'tis requisite he should not live,"
   I may observe that we have had before (p. 152, first col.)
   a similar form of expression,—
    "It is not necessary I be seen."]
</pre>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-137" id="linknote-137">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      137 (<a href="#linknoteref-137">return</a>)<br /> [ fair: See note |||, p.
      15. ('15' sic.)
    </p>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
     (note |||, p. 13, The First Part of Tamburlaine the Great:)

    "In fair, &amp;c.: Here "FAIR" is to be considered as a
     dissyllable:  compare, in the Fourth act of our author's
     JEW OF MALTA,
       "I'll feast you, lodge you, give you FAIR words,
        And, after that," &amp;c."]
</pre>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-138" id="linknote-138">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      138 (<a href="#linknoteref-138">return</a>)<br /> [ shall be done: Here a
      change of scene is supposed, to the interior of Barabas's house.]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-139" id="linknote-139">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      139 (<a href="#linknoteref-139">return</a>)<br /> [ Friar, awake: Here,
      most probably, Barabas drew a curtain, and discovered the sleeping Friar.]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-140" id="linknote-140">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      140 (<a href="#linknoteref-140">return</a>)<br /> [ have: Old ed. "saue."]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-141" id="linknote-141">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      141 (<a href="#linknoteref-141">return</a>)<br /> [ What time o' night is't
      now, sweet Ithamore?
    </p>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
      ITHAMORE. Towards one: Might be adduced, among other
passages, to shew that the modern editors are right when they
print in Shakespeare's KING JOHN. act iii. sc. 3,

                          "If the midnight bell
     Did, with his iron tongue and brazen mouth,
     Sound ONE into the drowsy ear of NIGHT," &amp;c.]
</pre>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-142" id="linknote-142">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      142 (<a href="#linknoteref-142">return</a>)<br /> [ Enter FRIAR JACOMO: The
      scene is now before Barabas's house,—the audience having had to
      SUPPOSE that the body of Barnardine, which Ithamore had set upright, was
      standing outside the door.]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-143" id="linknote-143">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      143 (<a href="#linknoteref-143">return</a>)<br /> [ proceed: Seems to be
      used here as equivalent to—succeed.]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-144" id="linknote-144">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      144 (<a href="#linknoteref-144">return</a>)<br /> [ on's: i.e. of his.]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-145" id="linknote-145">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      145 (<a href="#linknoteref-145">return</a>)<br /> [ Enter BELLAMIRA, &amp;c.:
      The scene, as in p. 160, a veranda or open portico of Bellamira's house.
    </p>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
     (p. 160, this play:)

    "     Enter BELLAMIRA. (91)
     BELLAMIRA. Since this town was besieg'd," etc.]
</pre>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-146" id="linknote-146">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      146 (<a href="#linknoteref-146">return</a>)<br /> [ tall: Which our early
      dramatists generally use in the sense of—bold, brave (see note ||,
      p. 161), [i.e. note 94: is here perhaps equivalent to—handsome.
      ("Tall or SEMELY." PROMPT. PARV. ed. 1499.)]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-147" id="linknote-147">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      147 (<a href="#linknoteref-147">return</a>)<br /> [ neck-verse: i.e. the
      verse (generally the beginning of the 51st Psalm, MISERERE MEI, &amp;c.)
      read by a criminal to entitle him to benefit of clergy.]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-148" id="linknote-148">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      148 (<a href="#linknoteref-148">return</a>)<br /> [ of: i.e. on.]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-149" id="linknote-149">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      149 (<a href="#linknoteref-149">return</a>)<br /> [ exercise: i.e. sermon,
      preaching.]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-150" id="linknote-150">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      150 (<a href="#linknoteref-150">return</a>)<br /> [ with a muschatoes: i.e.
      with a pair of mustachios. The modern editors print "with MUSTACHIOS," and
      "with a MUSTACHIOS": but compare,—
    </p>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
    "My Tuskes more stiffe than are a Cats MUSCHATOES."
          S. Rowley's NOBLE SPANISH SOLDIER, 1634, Sig. C.

    "His crow-black MUCHATOES."
          THE BLACK BOOK,—Middleton's WORKS, v. 516, ed. Dyce.]
</pre>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-151" id="linknote-151">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      151 (<a href="#linknoteref-151">return</a>)<br /> [ Turk of tenpence: An
      expression not unfrequently used by our early writers. So Taylor in some
      verses on Coriat;
    </p>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
    "That if he had A TURKE OF TENPENCE bin," &amp;c.
          WORKES, p. 82, ed. 1630.
</pre>
    <p>
      And see note on Middleton's WORKS, iii. 489, ed. Dyce.]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-152" id="linknote-152">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      152 (<a href="#linknoteref-152">return</a>)<br /> [ you know: Qy. "you
      know, SIR,"?]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-153" id="linknote-153">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      153 (<a href="#linknoteref-153">return</a>)<br /> [ I'll make him, &amp;c.:
      Old ed. thus:
    </p>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
    "I'le make him send me half he has, &amp; glad he scapes so too.
     PEN AND INKE:
     I'll write vnto him, we'le haue mony strait."
</pre>
    <p>
      There can be no doubt that the words "Pen and inke" were a direction to
      the property-man to have those articles on the stage.]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-154" id="linknote-154">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      154 (<a href="#linknoteref-154">return</a>)<br /> [ cunning: i.e. skilfully
      prepared.—Old ed. "running." (The MAIDS are supposed to hear their
      mistress' orders WITHIN.)]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-155" id="linknote-155">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      155 (<a href="#linknoteref-155">return</a>)<br /> [ Shalt live with me, and
      be my love: A line, slightly varied, of Marlowe's well-known song. In the
      preceding line, the absurdity of "by Dis ABOVE" is, of course,
      intentional.]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-156" id="linknote-156">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      156 (<a href="#linknoteref-156">return</a>)<br /> [ beard: Old ed.
      "sterd."]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-157" id="linknote-157">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      157 (<a href="#linknoteref-157">return</a>)<br /> [ give me a ream of
      paper: we'll have a kingdom of gold for't: A quibble. REALM was frequently
      written ream; and frequently (as the following passages shew), even when
      the former spelling was given, the L was not sounded;
    </p>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
    "Vpon the siluer bosome of the STREAME
     First gan faire Themis shake her amber locks,
     Whom all the Nimphs that waight on Neptunes REALME
     Attended from the hollowe of the rocks."
          Lodge's SCILLAES METAMORPHOSIS, &amp;c. 1589, Sig. A 2.

    "How he may surest stablish his new conquerd REALME,
     How of his glorie fardest to deriue the STREAME."
          A HERINGS TAYLE, &amp;c. 1598, Sig. D 3.

    "Learchus slew his brother for the crowne;
     So did Cambyses fearing much the DREAME;
     Antiochus, of infamous renowne,
     His brother slew, to rule alone the REALME."
          MIROUR FOR MAGISTRATES, p. 78, ed. 1610.]
</pre>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-158" id="linknote-158">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      158 (<a href="#linknoteref-158">return</a>)<br /> [ runs division: "A
      musical term [of very common occurrence]." STEEVENS (apud Dodsley's O.
      P.).]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-159" id="linknote-159">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      159 (<a href="#linknoteref-159">return</a>)<br /> [ Enter BARABAS: The
      scene certainly seems to be now the interior of Barabas's house,
      notwithstanding what he presently says to Pilia-Borza (p. 171, sec. col.),
      "Pray, when, sir, shall I see you at my house?"]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-160" id="linknote-160">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      160 (<a href="#linknoteref-160">return</a>)<br /> [ tatter'd: Old ed.
      "totter'd": but in a passage of our author's EDWARD THE SECOND the two
      earliest 4tos have "TATTER'D robes":—and yet Reed in a note on that
      passage (apud Dodsley's OLD PLAYS, where the reading of the third 4to,
      "tottered robes", is followed) boldly declares that "in every writer of
      this period the word was spelt TOTTERED"! The truth is, it was spelt
      sometimes one way, sometimes the other.]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-161" id="linknote-161">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      161 (<a href="#linknoteref-161">return</a>)<br /> [ catzery: i.e. cheating,
      roguery. It is formed from CATSO (CAZZO, see note *, p. 166 i.e. note
      127), which our early writers used, not only as an exclamation, but as an
      opprobrious term.]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-162" id="linknote-162">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      162 (<a href="#linknoteref-162">return</a>)<br /> [ cross-biting: i.e.
      swindling (a cant term).—Something has dropt out here.]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-163" id="linknote-163">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      163 (<a href="#linknoteref-163">return</a>)<br /> [ tale: i.e. reckoning.]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-164" id="linknote-164">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      164 (<a href="#linknoteref-164">return</a>)<br /> [ what he writes for you:
      i.e. the hundred crowns to be given to the bearer: see p. 170, sec. col.
    </p>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
     p. 170, second column, this play:

    "ITHAMORE. [writing: SIRRAH JEW, AS YOU LOVE YOUR LIFE,
     SEND ME FIVE HUNDRED CROWNS, AND GIVE THE BEARER A HUNDRED.
     —Tell him I must have't."]
</pre>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-165" id="linknote-165">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      165 (<a href="#linknoteref-165">return</a>)<br /> [ I should part: Qy. "I
      E'ER should part"?]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-166" id="linknote-166">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      166 (<a href="#linknoteref-166">return</a>)<br /> [ rid: i.e. despatch,
      destroy.]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-167" id="linknote-167">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      167 (<a href="#linknoteref-167">return</a>)<br /> [ Enter BELLAMIRA, &amp;c.:
      They are supposed to be sitting in a veranda or open portico of
      Bellamira's house: see note *, p. 168. [i.e. note 145.]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-168" id="linknote-168">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      168 (<a href="#linknoteref-168">return</a>)<br /> [ Of: i.e. on.]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-169" id="linknote-169">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      169 (<a href="#linknoteref-169">return</a>)<br /> [ BELLAMIRA.: Old ed.
      "Pil."]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-170" id="linknote-170">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      170 (<a href="#linknoteref-170">return</a>)<br /> [ Rivo Castiliano: The
      origin of this Bacchanalian exclamation has not been discovered. RIVO
      generally is used alone; but, among passages parallel to that of our text,
      is the following one (which has been often cited),—
    </p>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
    "And RYUO will he cry and CASTILE too."
          LOOKE ABOUT YOU, 1600, Sig. L. 4.
</pre>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
A writer in THE WESTMINSTER REVIEW, vol. xliii. 53, thinks that
it "is a misprint for RICO-CASTELLANO, meaning a Spaniard
belonging to the class of RICOS HOMBRES, and the phrase
therefore is—

    'Hey, NOBLE CASTILIAN, a man's a man!'
'I can pledge like a man and drink like a man, MY WORTHY TROJAN;'
as some of our farce-writers would say." But the frequent
occurrence of RIVO in various authors proves that it is NOT
a misprint.]
</pre>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-171" id="linknote-171">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      171 (<a href="#linknoteref-171">return</a>)<br /> [ he: Old ed. "you".]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-172" id="linknote-172">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      172 (<a href="#linknoteref-172">return</a>)<br /> [ and he and I, snicle
      hand too fast, strangled a friar] There is surely some corruption here.
      Steevens (apud Dodsley's O. P.) proposes to read "hand TO FIST". Gilchrist
      (ibid.) observes, "a snicle is a north-country word for a noose, and when
      a person is hanged, they say he is snicled." See too, in V. SNICKLE,
      Forby's VOC. OF EAST ANGLIA, and the CRAVEN DIALECT.—The Rev. J.
      Mitford proposes the following (very violent) alteration of this passage;
    </p>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
    "Itha. I carried the broth that poisoned the nuns; and he
   and I—
     Pilia. Two hands snickle-fast—
     Itha. Strangled a friar."]
</pre>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-173" id="linknote-173">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      173 (<a href="#linknoteref-173">return</a>)<br /> [ incony: i.e. fine,
      pretty, delicate.—Old ed. "incoomy."]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-174" id="linknote-174">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      174 (<a href="#linknoteref-174">return</a>)<br /> [ they stink like a
      hollyhock: "This flower, however, has no offensive smell. STEEVENS (apud
      Dodsley's O. P.). Its odour resembles that of the poppy.]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-175" id="linknote-175">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      175 (<a href="#linknoteref-175">return</a>)<br /> [ mushrooms: For this
      word (as, indeed, for most words) our early writers had no fixed spelling.
      Here the old ed. has "Mushrumbs": and in our author's EDWARD THE SECOND,
      the 4tos have "mushrump."]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-176" id="linknote-176">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      176 (<a href="#linknoteref-176">return</a>)<br /> [ under the elder when he
      hanged himself: That Judas hanged himself on an elder-tree, was a popular
      legend. Nay, the very tree was exhibited to the curious in Sir John
      Mandeville's days: "And faste by, is zit the Tree of Eldre, that Judas
      henge him self upon, for despeyt that he hadde, whan he solde and betrayed
      oure Lorde." VOIAGE AND TRAVAILE, &amp;c. p. 112. ed. 1725. But, according
      to Pulci, Judas had recourse to a carob-tree:
    </p>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
    "Era di sopra a la fonte UN CARRUBBIO,
     L'ARBOR, SI DICE, OVE S'IMPICCO GIUDA," &amp;c.
          MORGANTE MAG. C. xxv. st. 77.]
</pre>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-177" id="linknote-177">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      177 (<a href="#linknoteref-177">return</a>)<br /> [ nasty: Old ed.
      "masty."]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-178" id="linknote-178">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      178 (<a href="#linknoteref-178">return</a>)<br /> [ me: Old ed. "we".]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-179" id="linknote-179">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      179 (<a href="#linknoteref-179">return</a>)<br /> [ Enter Ferneze, &amp;c.:
      Scene, the interior of the Council- house.]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-180" id="linknote-180">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      180 (<a href="#linknoteref-180">return</a>)<br /> [ him: Qy. "'em"?]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-181" id="linknote-181">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      181 (<a href="#linknoteref-181">return</a>)<br /> [ Exeunt all, leaving
      Barabas on the floor: Here the audience were to suppose that Barabas had
      been thrown over the walls, and that the stage now represented the outside
      of the city.]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-182" id="linknote-182">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      182 (<a href="#linknoteref-182">return</a>)<br /> [ Bassoes: Here old ed.
      "Bashawes." See note §, p. 164. [Footnote i.e. note 117.]]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-183" id="linknote-183">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      183 (<a href="#linknoteref-183">return</a>)<br /> [ trench: A doubtful
      reading.—Old ed. "Truce."—"Query 'sluice'? 'TRUCE' seems
      unintelligible." COLLIER (apud Dodsley's O. P.).—The Rev. J. Mitford
      proposes "turret" or "tower."]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-184" id="linknote-184">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      184 (<a href="#linknoteref-184">return</a>)<br /> [ channels: i.e.
      kennels.]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-185" id="linknote-185">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      185 (<a href="#linknoteref-185">return</a>)<br /> [ Enter CALYMATH, &amp;c.:
      Scene, an open place in the city.]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-186" id="linknote-186">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      186 (<a href="#linknoteref-186">return</a>)<br /> [ vail: i.e. lower,
      stoop.]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-187" id="linknote-187">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      187 (<a href="#linknoteref-187">return</a>)<br /> [ To kept: i.e. To have
      kept.]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-188" id="linknote-188">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      188 (<a href="#linknoteref-188">return</a>)<br /> [ Entreat: i.e. Treat.]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-189" id="linknote-189">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      189 (<a href="#linknoteref-189">return</a>)<br /> [ Bassoes: Here old ed.
      "Bashawes." See note §, p. 164. [Footnote i.e. note 117.]]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-190" id="linknote-190">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      190 (<a href="#linknoteref-190">return</a>)<br /> [ Thus hast thou gotten,
      &amp;c.: A change of scene is supposed here—to the Citadel, the
      residence of Barabas as governor.]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-191" id="linknote-191">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      191 (<a href="#linknoteref-191">return</a>)<br /> [ Whenas: i.e. When.
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-192" id="linknote-192">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      192 (<a href="#linknoteref-192">return</a>)<br /> [ Within here: The usual
      exclamation is "Within THERE!" but compare THE HOGGE HATH LOST HIS PEARLE
      (by R. Tailor), 1614; "What, ho! within HERE!" Sig. E 2.]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-193" id="linknote-193">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      193 (<a href="#linknoteref-193">return</a>)<br /> [ sith: i.e. since.]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-194" id="linknote-194">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      194 (<a href="#linknoteref-194">return</a>)<br /> [ cast: i.e. plot,
      contrive.]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-195" id="linknote-195">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      195 (<a href="#linknoteref-195">return</a>)<br /> [ Bassoes: Here and
      afterwards old ed. "Bashawes." See note §, p. 164. [i.e. note 117.]—Scene,
      outside the walls of the city.]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-196" id="linknote-196">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      196 (<a href="#linknoteref-196">return</a>)<br /> [ basilisk[s: See note
      ||, p. 25.
    </p>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
     [note ||, p. 25, The First Part of Tamburlaine the Great:
    "|| basilisks: Pieces of ordnance so called.  They were of
     immense size; see Douce's ILLUST. OF SHAKESPEARE, i. 425."]
</pre>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-197" id="linknote-197">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      197 (<a href="#linknoteref-197">return</a>)<br /> [ And, toward Calabria,
      &amp;c.: So the Editor of 1826.—Old ed. thus:
    </p>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
    "And toward Calabria back'd by Sicily,
     Two lofty Turrets that command the Towne.
     WHEN Siracusian Dionisius reign'd;
     I wonder how it could be conquer'd thus?"]
</pre>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-198" id="linknote-198">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      198 (<a href="#linknoteref-198">return</a>)<br /> [ Enter FERNEZE, &amp;c.:
      Scene, a street.]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-199" id="linknote-199">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      199 (<a href="#linknoteref-199">return</a>)<br /> [ linstock: "i.e. the
      long match with which cannon are fired." STEEVENS (apud Dodsley's O. P.).]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-200" id="linknote-200">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      200 (<a href="#linknoteref-200">return</a>)<br /> [ Enter, above, &amp;c.:
      Scene, a hall in the Citadel, with a gallery.]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-201" id="linknote-201">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      201 (<a href="#linknoteref-201">return</a>)<br /> [ FIRST CARPENTER.: Old
      ed. here "Serv."; but it gives "CARP." as the prefix to the second speech
      after this.]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-202" id="linknote-202">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      202 (<a href="#linknoteref-202">return</a>)<br /> [ off: An interpolation
      perhaps.]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-203" id="linknote-203">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      203 (<a href="#linknoteref-203">return</a>)<br /> [ sun: Old ed. "summe."]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-204" id="linknote-204">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      204 (<a href="#linknoteref-204">return</a>)<br /> [ ascend: Old ed.
      "attend."]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-205" id="linknote-205">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      205 (<a href="#linknoteref-205">return</a>)<br /> [ A charge sounded
      within: FERNEZE cuts the cord; the floor of the gallery gives way, and
      BARABAS falls into a caldron placed in a pit.
    </p>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
     Enter KNIGHTS and MARTIN DEL BOSCO
</pre>
    <p>
      Old ed. has merely "A charge, the cable cut, A Caldron discouered."]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-206" id="linknote-206">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      206 (<a href="#linknoteref-206">return</a>)<br /> [ Christian: Old ed.
      "Christians."]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-207" id="linknote-207">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      207 (<a href="#linknoteref-207">return</a>)<br /> [ train: i.e. stratagem.]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-208" id="linknote-208">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      208 (<a href="#linknoteref-208">return</a>)<br /> [ pretended: i.e.
      intended.]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-209" id="linknote-209">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      209 (<a href="#linknoteref-209">return</a>)<br /> [ mediate: Old ed.
      "meditate."]
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="linknote-210" id="linknote-210">
      <!-- Note --></a>
    </p>
    <p class="foot">
      210 (<a href="#linknoteref-210">return</a>)<br /> [ all: Old ed. "call."]
    </p>