
    <p>
      TO MY WORTHY FRIEND, MASTER THOMAS HAMMON, of GRAY'S INN, ETC.
    </p>
    
    
    
    <p>
      This play, composed by so worthy an author as Master Marlowe, and the part
      of the Jew presented by so unimitable an actor as Master Alleyn, being in
      this later age commended to the stage; as I ushered it unto the court, and
      presented it to the Cock-pit, with these Prologues and Epilogues here
      inserted, so now being newly brought to the press, I was loath it should
      be published without the ornament of an Epistle; making choice of you unto
      whom to devote it; than whom (of all those gentlemen and acquaintance
      within the compass of my long knowledge) there is none more able to tax
      ignorance, or attribute right to merit. Sir, you have been pleased to
      grace some of mine own works <a href="#linknote-1" name="linknoteref-1" id="linknoteref-1"><small>1</small></a> with your courteous patronage: I
      hope this will not be the worse accepted, because commended by me; over
      whom none can claim more power or privilege than yourself. I had no better
      a new-year's gift to present you with; receive it therefore as a
      continuance of that inviolable obligement, by which he rests still
      engaged, who, as he ever hath, shall always remain,
    </p>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
     Tuissimus,
          Tho. Heywood. <a href="#linknote-2" name="linknoteref-2" id="linknoteref-2">2</a>
</pre>
    <p>
      <br /> <br />
    </p>
    <hr />
    <p>
      <br /> <br />
    </p>
    <h2>
      Contents
    </h2>
    <table summary="" style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto">
      <tr>
        <td>
          <p class="toc">
            <a href="#link2H_4_0001"> THE PROLOGUE SPOKEN AT COURT. </a>
          </p>
          <p class="toc">
            <a href="#link2H_EPIL"> EPILOGUE SPOKEN AT COURT. </a>
          </p>
          <p class="toc">
            <a href="#link2H_4_0003"> THE PROLOGUE TO THE STAGE, AT THE
            COCK-PIT. </a>
          </p>
          <p class="toc">
            <a href="#link2H_EPIL2"> EPILOGUE TO THE STAGE, AT THE COCK-PIT. </a>
          </p>
          <p class="toc">
            <a href="#link2H_4_0005"> DRAMATIS PERSONAE. </a>
          </p>
          <br />
          <p class="toc">
            <a href="#link2H_4_0006"> <b>THE JEW OF MALTA.</b> </a>
          </p>
          <p class="toc">
            <a href="#link2H_4_0007"> ACT I. </a>
          </p>
          <p class="toc">
            <a href="#link2H_4_0008"> ACT II. </a>
          </p>
          <p class="toc">
            <a href="#link2H_4_0009"> ACT III. </a>
          </p>
          <p class="toc">
            <a href="#link2H_4_0010"> ACT IV. </a>
          </p>
          <p class="toc">
            <a href="#link2H_4_0011"> ACT V. </a>
          </p>
          <br />
          <p class="toc">
            <a href="#link2H_FOOT"> Footnotes: </a>
          </p>
        </td>
      </tr>
    </table>
    <p>
      <br /> <br />
    </p>
    <hr />
    <p>
      <br /> <br /> <a name="link2H_4_0001" id="link2H_4_0001">
      <!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
    </p>
    <h2>
      THE PROLOGUE SPOKEN AT COURT.
    </h2>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
     Gracious and great, that we so boldly dare
     ('Mongst other plays that now in fashion are)
     To present this, writ many years agone,
     And in that age thought second unto none,
     We humbly crave your pardon.  We pursue
     The story of a rich and famous Jew
     Who liv'd in Malta:  you shall find him still,
     In all his projects, a sound Machiavill;
     And that's his character.  He that hath past
     So many censures <a href="#linknote-3" name="linknoteref-3" id="linknoteref-3">3</a> is now come at last
     To have your princely ears:  grace you him; then
     You crown the action, and renown the pen.
</pre>
    <p>
      <a name="link2H_EPIL" id="link2H_EPIL">
      <!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
    </p>
    <div style="height: 4em;">
      <br /><br /><br /><br />
    </div>
    <h2>
      EPILOGUE SPOKEN AT COURT.
    </h2>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
     It is our fear, dread sovereign, we have bin <a href="#linknote-4" name="linknoteref-4" id="linknoteref-4">4</a>
     Too tedious; neither can't be less than sin
     To wrong your princely patience:  if we have,
     Thus low dejected, we your pardon crave;
     And, if aught here offend your ear or sight,
     We only act and speak what others write.
</pre>
    <p>
      <a name="link2H_4_0003" id="link2H_4_0003">
      <!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
    </p>
    <div style="height: 4em;">
      <br /><br /><br /><br />
    </div>
    <h2>
      THE PROLOGUE TO THE STAGE, AT THE COCK-PIT.
    </h2>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
     We know not how our play may pass this stage,
     But by the best of poets <a href="#linknote-5" name="linknoteref-5" id="linknoteref-5">5</a> in that age
     THE MALTA-JEW had being and was made;
     And he then by the best of actors <a href="#linknote-6" name="linknoteref-6" id="linknoteref-6">6</a> play'd:
     In HERO AND LEANDER <a href="#linknote-7" name="linknoteref-7" id="linknoteref-7">7</a> one did gain
     A lasting memory; in Tamburlaine,
     This Jew, with others many, th' other wan
     The attribute of peerless, being a man
     Whom we may rank with (doing no one wrong)
     Proteus for shapes, and Roscius for a tongue,—
     So could he speak, so vary; nor is't hate
     To merit in him <a href="#linknote-8" name="linknoteref-8" id="linknoteref-8">8</a> who doth personate
     Our Jew this day; nor is it his ambition
     To exceed or equal, being of condition
     More modest:  this is all that he intends,
     (And that too at the urgence of some friends,)
     To prove his best, and, if none here gainsay it,
     The part he hath studied, and intends to play it.
</pre>
    <p>
      <a name="link2H_EPIL2" id="link2H_EPIL2">
      <!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
    </p>
    <div style="height: 4em;">
      <br /><br /><br /><br />
    </div>
    <h2>
      EPILOGUE TO THE STAGE, AT THE COCK-PIT.
    </h2>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
     In graving with Pygmalion to contend,
     Or painting with Apelles, doubtless the end
     Must be disgrace:  our actor did not so,—
     He only aim'd to go, but not out-go.
     Nor think that this day any prize was play'd; <a href="#linknote-9" name="linknoteref-9" id="linknoteref-9">9</a>
     Here were no bets at all, no wagers laid: <a href="#linknote-10" name="linknoteref-10" id="linknoteref-10">10</a>
     All the ambition that his mind doth swell,
     Is but to hear from you (by me) 'twas well.
</pre>
    <p>
      <a name="link2H_4_0005" id="link2H_4_0005">
      <!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
    </p>
    <div style="height: 4em;">
      <br /><br /><br /><br />
    </div>