<pre xml:space="preserve">
          Enter MACHIAVEL.

     MACHIAVEL. Albeit the world think Machiavel is dead,
     Yet was his soul but flown beyond the Alps;
     And, now the Guise <a href="#linknote-11" name="linknoteref-11" id="linknoteref-11">11</a> is dead, is come from France,
     To view this land, and frolic with his friends.
     To some perhaps my name is odious;
     But such as love me, guard me from their tongues,
     And let them know that I am Machiavel,
     And weigh not men, and therefore not men's words.
     Admir'd I am of those that hate me most:
     Though some speak openly against my books,
     Yet will they read me, and thereby attain
     To Peter's chair; and, when they cast me off,
     Are poison'd by my climbing followers.
     I count religion but a childish toy,
     And hold there is no sin but ignorance.
     Birds of the air will tell of murders past!
     I am asham'd to hear such fooleries.
     Many will talk of title to a crown:
     What right had Caesar to the empery? <a href="#linknote-12" name="linknoteref-12" id="linknoteref-12">12</a>
     Might first made kings, and laws were then most sure
     When, like the Draco's, <a href="#linknote-13" name="linknoteref-13" id="linknoteref-13">13</a> they were writ in blood.
     Hence comes it that a strong-built citadel
     Commands much more than letters can import:
     Which maxim had <a href="#linknote-14" name="linknoteref-14" id="linknoteref-14">14</a> Phalaris observ'd,
     H'ad never bellow'd, in a brazen bull,
     Of great ones' envy:  o' the poor petty wights
     Let me be envied and not pitied.
     But whither am I bound?  I come not, I,
     To read a lecture here <a href="#linknote-15" name="linknoteref-15" id="linknoteref-15">15</a> in Britain,
     But to present the tragedy of a Jew,
     Who smiles to see how full his bags are cramm'd;
     Which money was not got without my means.
     I crave but this,—grace him as he deserves,
     And let him not be entertain'd the worse
     Because he favours me.
          [Exit.]
</pre>